lies lies lies lies lies. this maid is telling lies.
He said no Adrian. You're excellent
Loyalty to me means a lot you can be with me forever
The first time I cleaned his bedroom
Uh, I didn't even know where to start
He was the sort of classic rock star was he just sort of dropped everything behind him and lets you pick it up
Yeah, he was like that
Home Videos from the time captured the singer relaxing at Neverland
It was a place to live out his fantasies and he shared the fun with the children. He surrounded himself with
What was the first thing for you what made you first suspect
That Michael Jackson had an unhealthy interest in children. I
Noticed that there were a lot of little boys. That's all that would hang around there
You wouldn't see like little girls and I knew the little boys were there
When they would arrive they would put their clothes in the suitcase in a suitcase in his room. I
started
realizing thinking and wondering
When he was taking baths with him, they were sleeping in his bed, but they're sleeping in their sleeping
Yeah, yeah you were talking about
the worst kind of sleeping with children
Yes, I know the truth. I was there and
When I would go in the next day there were little boys underwears either on the floor with Michaels or they were in the jacuzzi
So you were suspicious as soon as you saw that? Yeah, I got suspicious
And then I would find underwears also in his bed. I
I did find
underwears that were
mints
briefs
in the walk-in closet and
they were
Right and I I don't like to say this they were like crunchy hard with yellow stains all over him
I didn't know who they belonged to
Because the little boys started wearing Michael's briefs
And they would leave their underwears inside his drawer
The more Adrian saw the more convinced. She was that Michael Jackson was a predator
A feeling she says was shared by other staff at Neverland
There was a lot of Vaseline at Neverland
Sometimes it was found in the golf carts when mr. Jack's want to take off with the
with the boys
Vessel a yeah Vaseline and there was a lot of Vaseline in Michaels bedroom
It was actually all over the ranch. Is there possibly an innocent explanation for that? I?
Don't think so
What disturbed Adrienne the most was the way the popstar would be physical with the kids who were entrusted to his care
They were sitting on his laps the kids. I just saw a lot of
maybe fondling
Him maybe rubbing his hands and kids hair
Kissing him when you say fondling hugging kind of petting
Petting the kids petting the kids. We're kind of by the rear end. I
Don't think it was appropriate because they're not his children. You know, I
Just didn't think it was right. Did you ever talk to anybody about it?
you know, I signed a confidentiality agreement and
I was already conditioned and
Programmed you don't question it and we were told to stay away from the family. You just made you do your job
Every time we were together
It happened
There was no night that went by that I was with him that he didn't sexually abuse me
Adrian is not. The only one to be speaking out on the 10th anniversary of Michael Jackson's death. I
Was seven years old
Michael asked do you and the family when I come to Neverland?
Hello wait
Today is your birthday
Self. Congratulations. I love you. Goodbye
Australian choreographer Wade Robson has claimed he was molested by the singer when he was a boy
Told me if they ever found out what we were doing
He and I would go to jail for the rest of our lives
Now he and former child actor James safe Chuck have gone much further
Accusing Jackson of the most despicable depravity
In a controversial documentary leaving Neverland that was recently unveiled at the Sundance Film Festival
Don't believe your story or perhaps don't want to believe it
Is there anything that you feel that you can't say to them in a way not that long ago? I
was in the same position they were
Even though it happened to me. I still couldn't believe it. I still couldn't believe that
What Michael did was a bad thing?
Would you have thought 14 years later all this would be regurgitated I would never have imagined such a thing happening
I just still have trouble comprehending it for loya Tom Mesereau
The latest allegations are the claims of opportunists out to make a buck. I can't get over it
I mean, I just don't put any credibility in any of this. I just don't
In
2005 he helped clear jackson of child molestation charges and
Defends the singer to this day. I am 100% convinced Michael never abused a child never harmed a child
Certainly, never molested a child. I think this is hogwash
Are you on any sort of retainer at all from the Jackson estate? No, I'm not on any retainer at all
So no one's paying you any money to say nice things about Michael Jackson. No, no
I will always say was a nice person he was he was one of the nicest people I ever met
But you of all people know the smoke and fire argument
Is there any fire? There's no fire here whatsoever
Coming up. I used his fame and power in very loving and also very childish
Mede ways inside the playground of evil. Did you at any time see Michael Jackson? Molest Jordan Chandler it was
Terrible desperate bribes
$300 that was for covering for him dead frets if they could hire a hitman to take me out
Slice my hair and Michael Jackson's darkest secrets. We just want to show you this I
Remember that I was working there when that day when that ad was taping that that's next on 60 minutes
He was enormous it shouldn't have been King of Pop should have been gotta pop Emperor
Charisma isn't even the word for the spell he had on people
So I was caught up in it, too
Everything around him was a fantasy
Genie wolf is an old-school
Entertainment reporter who followed Michael Jackson's career right from the start
Enjoy the latest video from the hit album dangers. She
Regarded Jackson as the ultimate creative genius but also saw a dark side I
Couldn't help but observe what a
Spoiled King of Pop he was how he used
his fame and power in very loving and also very childish and
mean ways
Genie remembers how at the height of Jackson's fame
It was easy for starstruck families and their kids to be drawn into the singer's magical world
Surrounding himself as he did with children, didn't you ever find that unusual?
We didn't think much was unusual. He tried to be the Pied Piper
When I was around him, they were hidden in groups
I mean all these little kids some costumes some just regular kids following him and it just seemed like a
Comfort for him and his explanation was he didn't have a childhood? Yes. Did it seem strange?
Did it seem eccentric? Yes, but that eccentricity allowed him to get away with a lot because it's Michael
In the 1990s bus loads of children would be invited to Neverland to enjoy the theme park and a zoo
Down this way, you're gonna see a the game room is right there
But Jackson's made
Adrian McManus says there was always a lucky few who seemed to receive special attention
Young boys like home alone actor Macaulay Culkin who she claims she saw being touched inappropriately
by the singer
You're on record you're on public record court record is talking about Macaulay Culkin
Do you stand by that story? I?
Stand by what I said during my deposition, you know, I think it's best just leave it at that
Because Macaulay Culkin says, it's preposterous doesn't he? Yeah, he denies it to this day. He does
But you say you did heven I say I saw what I saw
Macaulay Culkin has always supported Michael Jackson and denies the singer ever molested him
But back in 1993
Another of Jackson's young male friends turned against him
13 year-old jordan chandler accused jackson of sexually abusing him during sleepovers at Neverland
Did you at any time see Michael Jackson molest Jordan Chandler
I saw some stuff that I didn't think was appropriate with. Mr. Jackson Jordan
What sort of things did you say with with Jordan Chandler Michael kissing on him?
Michaels has kind of very close to Georgie's crotch
It was
Terrible to see
Police launched an investigation into the abuse allegations and
Jordan Chandler's family announced they were preparing a civil case
But despite her strong suspicions to the contrary in a sworn deposition
Adrienne McManus said she had never witnessed Jackson molest children. I
Was scared to say anything bad about Michael. Mr. Jackson and
Then after that after I did the deposition probably 30 days maybe after Michael called me at my home
She claims Jackson demanded to know what his personal maid had told investigators about his behavior
Adrienne found herself in an unenviable position. I
Didn't think I was supposed to be doing that. I was kind of worried about that, but then I thought well you better do it
you know, so I did it and then
When one day and afternoon, he came up to me and he said Adrienne
This is for you and he had to me a little index card. That was like stapled on the sides
and it said
Thanks for everything
I opened it and it was $300
So that was for covering for him. He paid me $300. He was born no solids for $300. Yeah
Michael Jackson fired back at his accusers in a live televised announcement from Neverland
There have been many disgusting
Statements made recently concerning allegations of improper conduct on my part
These statements about me are totally false. Don't treat me like a criminal because I am innocent I
Remember that I was working there when that day when that media was taping that
1993. Mm-hmm. Don't treat me like a criminal because I'm innocent
Does that bring back strong memories? Uh, it takes me back to that day and
It makes me mad that I had to be involved in something like that
Why me?
So you don't believe those protestations one tiny bit
They don't
Jackson was never charged with molesting Jordan Chandler, but the young boy and his family
Received a 20 million dollar settlement from the singer it led to intense criticism
Jackson was buying the silence of his victims
Did you ever
Sexually engage
Fondle have sexual contact with this child or any other child never ever
I could never harm a child or anyone. It's not in my heart. It's not who I am and it's not what I meant
I'm not even interested in
This is joy Robson, you've known Michael Jackson you describe how would you describe your relationship with Michael?
Michaels like family to us. He's been very supportive
Personally and he waits career
At the time many came to Jackson's defense including Wade Robson and his family
Wade was the 10 year old Australian boy who developed an extremely tight bond with the singer and
Was still having sleepovers at the Neverland Ranch
Weird how would you describe your relationship with Michael? It's a real close relationship
It's both sides friendly and business
We love each other both very Julie, we're just real good friends
How did you feel when you heard that a boy was alleging that Michael had abused him Oh shot too
And I think it's sick cuz I know Michael well enough that you wouldn't do anything like that. I know that for a fact
After Jackson paid millions to settle the case against jordan chandler
Things changed for the worst for the workers at Neverland
Adrian McManus claims she and other staff were victimized by michael jackson's security guards
Because they knew too much
It was threatened. His bodyguards told me that
If I ever came up and on TV that they could hire a hitman take me out
Sliced my neck would never find my body
And you believed them
Yeah, I did. I lived in fear for many many years
Adrian lived with the fear and Michael Jackson lived with the rumors. Come on. Just get on show. Come on. Just show me
Just show me but in 2003 he made a monumental mistake
By inviting journalists Martin Bashir to show his life at Neverland. Do you come out here on your own? Yeah
Just come out on your own. Yes. What then go on a ride. Yep
You see the carousel. I'll play music
I look I don't play classical music on the carousel the documentary living with Michael Jackson
Gave an insight into the madness that engulfed the singers every move
Michael Jackson had just dangled his new baby out of the window of a Berlin hotel
Please buddies like it my kid blended
Michael Jackson hoped the documentary would turn his reputation around instead. It destroyed it
Have you been hearing about what people have been saying
That's totally ignorant. I would never do that to my children or any any child trying to kill them gone stupid
And why would I put a scarf over the baby's face if I was trying to throw him off the balcony?
I think the Martin Bashir documentary was a disaster for Michael Jackson. I think he never should have trusted. Mr
Bashir to do an objective
professional documentary
Jackson's lawyer Tom Izzo believes it was a turning point
Why do you think that you think the result was slanted Dean I think mr. Bashir turned it all against him
Tried to create a sensationalist documentary
for personal gain, that's my opinion and
It was spliced together and put together in a way which in my opinion was designed to make Michael look bad
What looked particularly bad was this
Twelve-year-old Gavin Arvizo had been recovering from cancer when Jackson met and befriended him
In the documentary Martin Bashir asked the young boy about the sleeping arrangements at Neverland
And then he finally said ok
If you love me to see one of it I was like, ah, man and so I finally sat on the bed
but Michael, you know, you're a
44 year old man now
What what do you get out of this? What do you get out of this? What can't you share your bed?
But the most loving thing to do is to share your bed with someone
You know your anything that yeah
After the broadcast Michael Jackson accused Bashir of betraying his trust and manipulating the interview
But the fuse was lit police raided Neverland Ranch
Approximately 70 sheriff's rated, Neverland
scoured every building every room for computers for documentary evidence anything they could find
They were relentless in their efforts to find evidence to convict Michael Jackson with and in a write of that sighs
What did they find?
Nothing in my opinion
Michael Jackson was arrested and charged
It was a humiliating downfall. That would see Jackson's dirty laundry aired before the world
Coming up the jacksons bike back so you think it's all
Tied into money. Yes money and fame and publicity the made under pressure
How do we know you're telling the truth now, but always defiant. I know the truth. I can sleep very good at night
That's rich on 60 minutes
Adrian McManus claims she has been left penniless by her four years working at Neverland as
Michael Jackson's house made
When she left in 1994
She and four other employees
Sued the singer for wrongful termination and lost
Do you still owe the Jackson estate money? I
Probably do but
Michaels dead now, you know
Yeah, you must know the amount. Well, you know, I know that um, I can't remember it. It might have been Oh,
God it was a lot of money you were ordered to pay legal fees
Initially, yeah for breach of contract for suing mr. Jackson, which was what 1.6 million it was father. Yeah, just to refresh your memory
Okay. Yeah, the sheriff hasn't come knocking at the door yet. No
And your hope they don't
Well, they do they do
In a countersuit Jackson's estate
Accused her of stealing belongings from Neverland to sell to the media. There was a
sketch
That I found in the trash you
Then unsold that sketch
The sketch of Elvis that you supposedly found in the trash. I figured well, I found in the trash. It didn't mean anything to me
Which I shouldn't did that, you know, but I did and the jury said that you then owed Michael Jackson
$34,000. Yeah from that from now after yeah, so did you pay the thirty four thousand back? No, I did it. No
You haven't paid any of that back either. No
The credibility of Adrian McManus has again been questioned because of her changing account of what she saw at, Neverland
sworn evidence she gave in
1993 that she never saw any inappropriate behavior by Jackson towards any child
at Michael Jackson's trial
You were found to have lied under oath
Okay. Now I'm gonna explain that. Um when Michael threatened me I
was scared what was gonna happen to me and my family and my son you
Admit to not telling the truth. Yeah, because he threatened me
How do we know you're telling the truth now?
Well, let's put it this way. I know the truth. I can sleep very good at night
I'm happy I did what I did by standing up and trying to do the right thing
You've got to look very carefully at people's motives and you've got to look very carefully at the facts
You've got the most famous person in the world one of the wealthiest people in the world
Perceived as very vulnerable
Okay, and people constantly try to exploit him throughout his lifetime
The lawyer Tom Mesereau so much of what was aimed at Michael Jackson was about cold hard cash
People wanted to make so much money on
Watching the great Michael Jackson rise high and then splatter
They wanted the story to have a miserable ending for him
They hoped they would see him in the courtroom in Chains and jail clothes
Without makeup without his hair fixed up without the clothing
He liked to wear they were looking forward to seeing the final chapter where Michael Jackson gets destroyed and it was very disheartening
to observe so you think it's all
Tied into money. Yes money and fame and publicity
Including what he views as the latest trumped-up charges of child abuse
some of these
Accusers have not just changed their story slightly. They've done a 180
Is there a possible explanation in the me2 movement where people now feel more comfortable?
Saying publicly. Look I was abused
Can we now please do something about it?
Right. Now if you are accused of this type of thing you were almost judged guilty before you can defend yourself
I think right now we're going a little too far and a lot of people who are not honest who are trying to capitalize
on this particular movement are
raising
Accusations that need to be challenged you don't think the freedom of the May 2 movement
could be explained for
These latest accusers coming up and saying that Michael Jackson molested them
I think the freedom of the me2 movement has allowed false accusations to be made as well as
Real accusations and we've got to be very careful to make sure we sift out what's real and what's false
Coming up
King of Pop in core I think it's worth to be charged with something like this than Thomason disputed testimony. I saw a good
Bunch of people who I felt very deeply were lying and an extraordinary result
Were you surprised by the outcome celebrities can do no wrong in?
Today's world that's next on 60 minutes
Why can't you share your bed
The most loving thing they do is to share your bed with someone by agreeing to participate in Martin Bashir's documentary
Michael Jackson with the innocent assistance of his 12 year old friend Gavin Arvizo
Had given police all the reason they needed to investigate
America indeed the world had never seen anything like it
In 2005 Jackson's case came to court
and
So the stage was set for what would be one of the biggest trials of the century
it was a showdown more than a decade in the making and
Covered by twice as many media as turned up for the OJ Simpson trial
Jackson faced 14 counts from child molestation
To conspiring to imprison the accuser and his family at the Neverland Ranch if found guilty
He faced at least 20 years in jail
These are horrific charges. These are ugly nasty charges
I think it's worse to be charged with something like this than homicide. I really do
The 14 week trial was a circus I
Think you have just seen that it takes about 20 minutes to make it a hundred yards when you're in mr. Jackson's company
Everyday crowds would gather to see the King of Pop
This case is about one thing only
It's about the dignity
the integrity the decency the honor
the charity
The innocence and the complete vindication of a wonderful human being named. Michael. Jackson
Hollywood journalist, Janie wolf saw things very differently. I
Saw people who were out to get Michael Jackson. I saw people who were angry at Michael Jackson
I also saw people who adored him and then I saw a good
Bunch of people who I felt very deeply were lying. We're getting paid were getting
Influenced and and I found the whole thing
Frightening on which side do you think people?
Were lying in favor of Michael Jackson in his defense in his defense saying that nothing ever happened
Adrian McManus took the stand to give evidence
Against her former employer. Well, it's pretty crazy. I wasn't shocked that it was that it was happening again
Because I knew it was gonna happen again
Do you know what I'm saying?
You always thought a trial sooner or later was going to come along did you? Yeah, I did. Yes, I did
Sad to say but yeah
Wade Robson is now accusing Michael Jackson of abusing him throughout his childhood
Was the star witness for the defense?
He was very very strong in his defense of Michael Jackson. He told me in no uncertain terms
He had not been molested. He had not been abused and that these claims were ridiculous. I mean this man was so strongly
supportive of Michael Jackson
So powerful in his defense of Michael Jackson that it just shocks me that he's changed his story in recent years
I just can't get over it
as
the trial reached a conclusion the strain of Michael Jackson was starting to show I
watched him deteriorate
Physically and emotionally during the trial he lost weight his cheeks became more sunken in by verdict day
He just looked like a shell of his old self to me
After eight days of deliberation the jury reached its verdict
we the jury find the defendant not guilty of attempting to commit a lewd act upon a minor child a
Unanimous decision of not guilty on all charges
That moment in the courtroom
When they said not guilty
How many times 14 14 times?
What was that? Like that was one of the most unique?
powerful
unusual experiences of my lifetime
What would Michael Jackson say to you he said thank you thank you. Thank you, never forget
For Michael Jackson, it was vindication
But the damage was done and life at Neverland would never be the same again
Were you surprised by the outcome
No, I wasn't surprised because I
think in today's world a lot of jurors
They don't like to
Say that a celebrity is is guilty
Why not
Because they think they're above everybody else. They just they look up to them and they right away think everybody wants money
That's why you know celebrities can do no wrong
in today's world
That's what I think
Coming up the biggest headline of all
Very eerie to even be around you. I've never visited this place before the stories. That won't go away
talk about
Their abuse make these new accusations. Do you believe them?
It would be very hard not to believe them and returning to Neverland one last time, yeah, I can't believe I'm coming back here
very mixed emotions
That's next on 60 minutes
Michael Jackson might have been found not guilty of child sexual abuse in 2005
But the trial and the lurid headlines have created irreparably damaged his career
Never again. Would he hit the highs of the musical stardom? He had once known
These will be my final show
Performances in London
This will be it this is it when I say this is it it really means this is it because
In 2009 though at fifty years of age he announced one last shot
Jackson called his farewell tour. This is it and sold out 50 concerts at London's o2 arena
But less than three weeks from the start of the tour
Michael Jackson made his biggest headline ever when he overdosed on prescription drugs and died
The day Michael died, where were you I came home and
Their father called me and he said can't you have to come down to the hospital?
Like the rest of the world news of Jackson's death was met with disbelief
By his family as his mum Katherine told Liz haze in
Nobody would say anything and I said well, where's Michael I want to go to his room
I want to go and visit him, you know
Nobody said anything
And then find me in about ten or fifteen minutes later. They took me to a room and nobody would say anything
So finally I said well did he make it and I was screaming like did he make it?
and
Frank finally said slowly. No, he didn't make it
I don't know what happened after that. I guess I must have blacked out or screamed or something but
That's what happened
Stay
More than 1 billion people watched a funeral service that was broadcast live around the world
The curtain closing on one of the greatest entertainers who ever lived
This is where Michael spent his last few hours, it's very eerie to even be around you
I've never visited this place before I've never even wanted to
Returning to the mansion where Michael Jackson died is a reminder for Jeanne Wolff of what has been lost
Once blinded by his star power. She now views him differently
Do you think Jeanne that these latest?
Accusations have affected the Michael Jackson legacy. I definitely do I don't think people will look at him in the same way
I don't think his music will die. It's just too great. I think his music is
Beyond him, but the myth the myth is gone
But for Tom Mesereau the lawyer who defended him, it's Michael Jackson
Who is the victim not the boys who ended up in his bed in Neverland?
You're one person that knows in life. There's a lot of gray
Not a lot of black and white
but you're
Adamant, aren't you you don't think Michael Jackson has molested one single person. Michael was a creative spirit
He danced to his own drummer. He saw things. We don't see he heard things
We don't hear he was a creative genius. He was eccentric he was different and he was an artist
I don't believe he was a molester for five seconds if we look at the history of this though the number of accusers
Chandler
Gavin Arvizo
Wade Robson now Jimmy's safe Chuck. I mean are they all making it up?
Let's look at them individually
Safe Chuck swore under penalty of perjury that he wasn't abused
Robson swore under penalty of perjury that he wasn't abused
Her visa wasn't believed by the jury
Two other people were paid off to end the litigation to end the lawsuit so we could get on with his career
So, where do you where do you when you look at everyone under a microscope? What do you really come up with? Not much
Well a lot more than most mere mortals face in their lifetime but he's the biggest target on the planet
He was the most famous person on the planet. He was immensely wealthy. He was perceived as immensely vulnerable
This made him a target throughout his life
Any and he's being attacked even in death
by people who want money
The days
were filled with
magical childhood adventure
experiences
playing tag watching movies eating junk food
Anything you could ever want as a child
Out of a storybook right? I'm a fairy tale
Michael Jackson gave the world his music but to his accusers he took away so much
More than most Genie wolf has listened to what they've said and
Believes their accounts of what happened at Neverland are convincing
Jeanie
You've seen and heard Wade Robson and Jimmy's safe Chuck. Yes. I talked about
Their abuse make these new accusations. Do you believe them?
It would be very hard not to believe them, how do you explain their complete reversal of
Their stories they were both in love as only a kid could be with Michael Jackson
Both of them have repeatedly said that Michael Jackson told them over and over again
We can never tell anyone because if we do I'll go to jail for life and you'll go to jail for life. So
embedded in their mind
Was the imperative that we never tell this secret
I
Can't believe I'm coming back here
Very mixed emotions, Adrian McManus insists. She's also telling the truth about
Michael Jackson and what went on in Neverland a
Place she would rather forget
When you see these gates again
What's the abiding memory
Anxiety
Misery I
Would never go through those gates again ever. That's how you think about all those years here. Is it misery misery a
bad choice bad choice that I made
If Michael Jackson was still
Alive today, do you think you would be?
Speaking out like this if he was alive, I would say it I would say it to his face. I
really would
You know, I was 28 when I started working for him these boys were young if it was hard for me at that age
Can you imagine how?
How it was for them. It was another side to him and I saw it. Mmm, I
Don't feel sorry for that. I just don't I feel sorry for the children
Hello, I'm Liam Bartlett, thanks for watching so keep up with the latest from 60 minutes, Australia
Make sure you subscribe to our Channel. You can also download the 9 now app for full episodes and other exclusive
60 minutes content